"Ian Zhao is highly sensitive to different musical colors" Nicholas Trygsted said. He can catch the harmonic changes to handle different musical colors. He is not only focus on classical music but also loving play some jazz and tango. Back to 2024 when he was study in Royal Northern College of music for Master degree. He played the Claude Bolling's Suite for Cello & Jazz Piano Trio, received highly praised from all examiner. And Piazzolla The Four Seasons of Buenos Aires in several city of China. He always can catch the audience heart while his playing. 

In 11th of April 2025, he and Joachim Lim(Pianist) invited by Martin in-the-field to have a lunchtime concert. When the last note of Shostakovich Cello Sonata finshed. The audience burst into enthusiastic applause. Furtheremore, he keen to play all kinds of chamber music. Played Cello  Duo in the Birmingham Cathedral, String Octet in Ipswich, with Royal Birmingham Conservatoire symphony orchestra in the symphony hall and so on. Recently, he and his Piano Quartet just won the Leamington Prize. They will have a concert in Holy Trinity Church in Leamington on 9th of June 2026. And he as been invited to play with LANO quartet in Winchcombe Music Festival in 30th of May 2026. Also the Cheltenham Music Festival.

Recently years, from August 2024 to 2026, he worked as a assistant for Professor Nicholas Trygstad, Head of Strings of Royal Birmingham Conservatoire. In 2024 and 2025, he helped Nick with teaching and translation at the "Cello Family" Music Festival and also work for Cello Family as a resident music teacher. He combined the professor’s teaching with his experience to help students understand better, and this made his teaching experience much richer. In March 2026, he taught and assisted Nicholas at Qingdao Menuhin International Music School, Sichuan Conservatory of Music, and Xi’an Conservatory of Music for the master class

He was studying cello from 2009, with Professor Yu Mingqing, head of orchestra of Central Conservatory of Music, as well as Professor Yu jia, a young cellist residing in the United States. Then, next year he studying in Central Conservatory of Music for twelve years.After that, he go abroad to study in Manchester, Royal Northern College of Music in 2023, studying Nicholas Trygsted with scholarship. 

Ian Zhao has participated in the national Aiqin Cup Cello Competition several times. And  won the second prize in the amateur group and fourth prize in the professional group. He won second place in the ensemble category at the Central Conservatory of Music's 3rd Chamber Music Competition (with no first prize awarded) and was the top winner in the Yiyang Top Talent competition. For other accomplishments include third place in the 2019 Aiqin Cup ensemble group and the gold prize in the Open Group C at the 2021 Golden Hall String Invitational in the Beijing. He has performed with the Central Conservatory of Music Symphony Orchestra on numerous time and has participated in various international music festivals, teaching from renowned cellists such as Lynn Harrell and Liwei Qin. Many years of his performance experience have greatly enriched his skills.
